I think speaking is about State it's
about tapping into forgetting about the
fact that you're speaking you should be
discovering the words as they appear out
of your mouth at the same time your
audience is your subconscious and your
whole body is just doing the action that
it knows how to do so well the moment
you start thinking about it and trying
to hit a framework or trying to get the
words right you're out of the
[Music]
flow thanks for having me Joe yeah very
stoked to be here because we have a lot
of a lot of students on our end that
come from the art of accomplishment and
I know that a lot of people from Ultra
speaking love the art of accomplishment
so I'm eager to to dig in and see where
we have common ground uh
what what didn't you say I mean yeah a
lot of
things
uh well I'm I've dedicated the last
seven years of my life to studying
communication and I think where you and
I have a lot in common is that the in
the way we approach this which is
thinking of everything that's happening
on the outside a lot of what you can see
are just symptoms and what's interesting
to me is figuring out what the root is
and if I can solve the root then the
symptoms solve themselves and so the
pursuit of communication training or at
least a a modern pursuit to me is one of
finding yourself and learning how to be
more of yourself in all kinds of
environments where you tend to be
guarded or hiding or avoiding and that's
what's been driving me for the past
seven years and I can't see myself
getting bored of this yeah yeah bored of
this would be weird yeah for sure okay
so if you could sum up the root of it if
you could sum up
generally what makes it that people have
a hard time being themselves in
different situations what what what
would you say that is and how do you
address
it I think I think a large part of
it is just inherent to us as humans I
find that really fascinating because so
from an evolutionary standpoint if you
stand up in front of your tribe and you
say something dumb or you say something
that nobody agrees with you're going to
get pushed out if you get pushed out
that means death isolation and that's
the worst thing that could happen to a
human so I think from an evolutionary
standpoint we want to fit
in
and at the same and so when we go
through
school we have so many moments exactly
like this where our teacher has a stand
up in front of the class and we have to
speak and what I've noticed is you kind
of have two roads you have the naturals
and then everybody else people think the
naturals are people who just they know
they it's It comes naturally to them
what I think a natural is is somebody
who walked up on that stage and they may
not have done any better than anybody
else but for some reason they loved the
experience they loved the adrenaline of
it they enjoyed the nerves and the
nervousness and all of the prickly
things that were happening they loved
how alert they were in the moment and so
when they walk down they think they
think to themselves whoa I want more of
that and so they start looking for more
opportunities to
speak and that turns them into the
naturals because they're just they've
been training all their life basically
to just thrive in that kind of an
environment the people I see most of the
time are people who followed a very
different route where they walk up on
the
stage and for whatever reason either
it's something very real they felt
actually humiliated or just extremely
anous and they hated the feeling leading
up to it the feeling of it and from that
Mo moment on they start avoiding and so
I'm going to avoid even if it's small
things I'm going to say no over and over
and over to all these opportunities
where I could test myself and as a
desire to fit in I start trying to avoid
situations where things would go wrong
and I start putting filters up in front
of me let me make sure that what I have
in my mind is going to land before I
actually say it so I'm going to filter
it and I'm also building up these masks
and I'm starting to become a different
person in different environments when
I'm at work I'm this person when I'm
with my family I'm this person when I'm
with this group of friends I'm this
person and that just overloads your
system to a point where you have lost
touch with who you are it's almost like
you're trapped in a
lie and everything you say from that
moment on has to go through the filter
of does this fit the Persona that I am
right now and so a lot of so I think
that's why so many people struggle at
the root of it yeah one of the things
you're saying is one of the things that
I find Most Fascinating about Humanity
in general is we have both a desire to
be normal to fit in right which is not
extraordinary and then we have the
desire to be EXT ordinary right like
everybody's like oh I want to be rich
that's extraordinary that's like you
know less than 1% I want to be really I
want to be a billionaire it's like 0.1%
I want to be famous
0.1% like we have all these desires to
be
extraordinary smartest best and yet at
the same time we want to fit in and and
it's very rare that any human being that
I've ever met actually looks at them and
goes I mean the ones who have been
extremely successful they seem to
grocket because they realize that they
stand out but anybody who's striving for
that extraordinariness never puts it
together that that would make them stand
out it would make them exactly not
ordinary and and not fit in which is a
totally fascinating thing and I see
these two movements in people all the
time create like a fierce amount of uh
friction in their system and and a whole
bunch of action that is not completely
aligned and so they want to go somewhere
but they don't ever get there because
they have these two competing wants so
yeah it's just a totally fascinating
part of it for me yeah same I see so
many of these kind of dichotomies of
these polarities that are always alive
and even the idea
that speaking is natural it's something
that we do all the time yet if I try to
speak I'm I've already failed cuz now
I'm trying this idea that like I need to
be I need to speak in a certain way if I
want to do it well so I'm I'm trying to
be something completely different when I
already inherently know exactly what to
do and I just need to learn how to trust
that and build up confidence that I can
do it without having to think about
it yeah that's a it's an so the whether
you call it a flow state or or whatever
you want to call it there's this place
where you stop thinking about stuff and
you and you can just like move uh
without that thought process and like
any musician knows it because if you if
you've ever played music have you have
you ever played yeah yeah so you're
playing music and then you start
thinking too much and music goes to [__]
then you start thinking more it goes
even worse and it's like it's all about
getting lost in it and same if you're
surfing same if you're speaking I notice
uh I used to I was not a natural when it
came to speaking at all I didn't like it
and wasn't something that was native to
me and I had this experience that
totally shifted all of that for me and
then all of a sudden I I dug it which is
the the other thing that you're saying
which totally fascinates me about
Humanity as well is you have an
emotional experience that you don't like
like like you just spoke about in
speaking and then you hit avoidance and
then like there's this whole channel of
your life that's just shut down like
speaking is this one example this can be
addiction this can
be I'm not going to date anymore I'm not
going to you know I'm not going to go
after the woman because I had this one
emotional experience and these whole
parts of your life are shut down because
you didn't like the emotional experience
and it could have just as easily been oh
I like the emotional experience and then
that whole part of your life opens up
which completely fascinates me like oh I
tried to attract a woman I tried to hit
on a woman a woman rejected me and I was
like oh that was kind of fun like you'll
be you'll you'll you'll be dating lots
of women if you if that's what you want
you get that first rejection you're like
oh I'm horrible I never want to
experience that again you're like
playing video games and whacking off to
porn for like the rest of your life
right it's crazy how that works so very
similar yeah how do you how do you how
do you help
folks learn to love it like how do you
help folks who
who speak naturally all the time but
then when the stakes are high they hate
it how do you teach them how to love
it I think what what's
important is
that you this can't happen just in your
head you
can't read 50 books sitting down by
yourself and then say oh I get it and
walk out and think that you're going to
be confident cuz the confidence is when
I'm walking into this situation that's
super scary to me that the the the very
situation I've been avoiding you have to
be able to say no no no I got this it's
going to go okay I'm gonna I'm actually
I'm going to do well
even but you need to
believe that your subconscious has to
trust you has to trust those words and
your subconscious knows without a doubt
whether or not that's true so if you say
I got this because I read a bunch of
books your subconscious is going to say
[__] you read a bunch of books but
we've never tested this out this is
probably going to fail and it's probably
right so the most important ingredient
is you can't get better at this without
doing the thing you don't get better at
speaking without speaking so you need to
figure out an environment that
replicates what you're trying the
environment you're trying to thrive in
as closely as possible so you find other
people that you can be around with with
with whom you can practice speaking
and the way you practice is as important
as the environment as well so number one
you have the environment I'm going to
spend time actually doing the thing the
second piece is you need to be
practicing for the right State and I
really think you talked about flow I
think speaking is about State it's about
tapping
into forgetting about the fact that
you're speaking you should be
discovering the words as they appear out
of your mouth at the same time your
audience is because you're so in tune
with the concept that you're trying to
convey with the person that's in front
of you or with the emotion that you're
holding on to
that your subconscious and your whole
body is just doing the action that it
knows how to do so well the moment you
start thinking about it and trying to
hit a framework or trying to get the
words right you're out of the flow so
when you train you need to train in ways
where you when you finish your rep which
should be
short you look back and you almost wake
up and sometimes you it's so much of an
Awakening at the end that you don't even
remember the details of what you shared
that's because you did the right thing
and you were completely inflow so you do
that short reps you get feedback from
your community which will usually be
supportive and maybe they point
something out that you weren't aware of
but often times they're going to say wow
that was so impactful and you're going
to think that just felt so random and
boring and simple and normal to me no no
no no that was the best speech I've ever
seen from you and so that's you you
start thinking you get one rep oh I can
do this and then you just layer them up
over and over and over and eventually
when you go out into that environment
where you say hey I got this and your
subconscious comes up and checks they
say yeah we've done a 100 reps in a
similar environment and it worked out
and we kept getting good feedback so
yeah we probably do got it yeah yeah
that makes it makes sense the the thing
that I know about your work because of
what people have told me is that like
your classes are incredibly fun that
people get in and it's like it's like
our stuff it's it's not a normal
classroom it's you know you're just
doing lots of experiments and you're
getting it in your body and you're
learning stuff for you all it's speaking
publicly for us it's like dealing with
conflict or how to connect and but it's
all about getting it into your body and
I remember that the way you talk about
it I remember this time um where I was a
venture capitalist and I had been giving
this presentation and I was at a a
conference and they lost the
presentation and I had to speak for 20
minutes on this thing man and and it
was it was I remember it being scary I
also
remember like oh [__] I don't have a
choice and I had like the outline in my
head kind of because I had written it
and I knew what I was going to say and I
was just like okay let's let's do this
let's get up and do it and it was in
front of like a couple hundred people
and after that experience I was like
that was that moment I was talking about
earli in the podcast I it was done I was
just I will never prepare for a speech
again it was so much better than
anything i' had ever done up until that
point it was it was amazing and God it
would have been a lot nicer if I had had
some
Reps for sure yeah the way the way we
talk about that is is most people
learn think about the speaking as
something very linear it goes from A to
Z and it's a bunch of chain links
together so you're memorizing word after
word or step after step and if you think
about it that way then any chain link
that breaks and you're and it's gone and
there's nothing Beyond and you're lost
and now you're it's full panic mode what
you had to do was come back to the very
very essence of what it is you were
going to talk about like what's the one
thing I want to convey and then what
were those bookmarks along the way that
I knew I need to hit but then you have
total freedom since you didn't know
literally you didn't prepare for it so
you didn't have all the details down to
a te so you were now you had access to a
tree with tons of branches where it
doesn't matter if you snap one branch
off you still have a beautiful tree so
now you're just navigating this
beautiful three-dimensional thing that's
your mind and you can access and you
might even oh you tell me did you access
anything in the presentation that you
hadn't prepared for that kind of popped
out of course yeah I mean that's the
best thing about doing podcasts and
about all the content I make is because
I do it extemporary extemporary what's
extemporaneously extemporaneously yeah
that I do it that way that I'm
discovering stuff all the time while I'm
talking right oh that I put those two
things together right and I've seen it
over here and it happens and it's I mean
that's I don't think I would be
interested in producing as much content
as i' do if I wasn't learning and I
think everybody's experienced that when
they're writing a paper and you write
the paper and you're learning something
while you're writing the paper it's the
same experience it's
lovely oh% it's like it's
like life right yeah if you knew
everything that was going to happen
before it happened it would be ex
insanely boring there's a life is
inherently an improvisation and I don't
think there's there's almost nothing in
life that's
worth not making an improvisation it's
just life is much more interesting and
there's much more you can get otherwise
you're just set in a in a direction and
you watch your life go by yeah yeah
there there was something else you said
back which explains something to me that
I I know the phenomenon because
everybody says things like oh you said
that thing in the podcast and I was like
really and then I hear it I'm like yeah
that sounds like something i' would say
or that sound smart
or
and and I'm and I but I don't remember
much when I'm actually in that state I
remember very little I'll remember
stories of other people I'll remember
it's the same you've seen me do the
rapid fire coaching I'll
remember them as a person in their like
how they present themselves and the
trauma that's in them but I have a hard
time remembering
words when I'm doing any of that work
because it's I I've never known why but
it's nice to hear that like this is
something that happens for a lot of
people when they're speaking this way or
when they're coming from that place it's
one of the most common things I hear in
the beginning of ultr speaking training
is I asked them how did it go and they
said I have no idea I genuinely just
don't know what happened cuz that also
heightened if there's if you have
adrenaline in the moment so if your if
your senses are heightened you're you're
even more hyperfocused and so there's
just there's no point for memory in a
state like that yeah yeah it's the same
I I'll walk out
of like we did the rapid fire coaching
at your at your class and I have no idea
I walk out of I'm like I have no idea
how it goes I just like I I'm just I I I
know it felt good or it didn't feel good
to me and that's all I know I have no
idea often times I'm like ah and then 20
people will be like that was the best
thing ever I'm like H you know just no
idea about it yeah such a crazy I feel
very similarly in coaching fact I I host
a hot seat coaching every week where
anybody can show up and anybody raises
their hand and I coach them in front of
everybody else and then we have a
discussion that's in your once when
someone signs up for your class that's
part of it every week no it's actually
it's free it's every week that's cool
yeah yeah it's one of my I started doing
it because I was so focused on the
business at one point that I realized oh
no I'm not coaching enough and I hate
that I'm not coaching anymore so I
thought how do I how do I get back into
it and that was something that I felt oh
I could give back and it was very scary
at first
to jump back into it with the hardest
possibly one of the hardest ways of
doing it with an with an actual audience
watching you as the founder that was
kind of scary but it has now
become my favorite absolute favorite
moment of the week every single time but
one thing is super frustrating is that
in those
moments it's probably the moment when I
have the best insights I ever have all
week related to speaking and there's I'm
coaching I'm in it and somebody asks a
question and I'll just for some reason
everything lines up perfectly and I can
give a two-minute monologue that I think
to myself I'm like wow even I'm thinking
man you that was just that's exactly
what you have been trying to figure out
for these past three months and I can
say it perfectly and then when it's over
I'm like that needs to be a video or
something I need to get it out because
it was so well said and there's no way
to re access that state in afterwards
I'm like ah it's it's gone where is it I
it's like cat trying to catch a dream so
I have to find
way please I have a solution for that
um record your own camera on quick time
yeah nice so you're not recording the
other people so that they all have that
and then anything you have you can
actually cut and paste oh nice yeah I'm
in yeah yeah totally because it is I
totally know that thing where you're
just you're saying the thing and you
know it's the right thing and you've
discovered the thing and it's and you're
never going to say it like that again
that's where writers have it have it
nice right they they get to whenever
they get something a good it's like oh
there we go got it then it's there yeah
exactly it's there I have a I have a
question for you related to yeah what
causes the thing that we're them trying
to
um what like unlearn or or or trying to
to to unblock for the person we're
working with yeah in the early
days we used to try and figure out
exactly what the inciting incident was
like the very very early days of Michael
and I so Michael's my co-founder we
built this together and we would for the
first three years we did 100% of our
coaching together as a oh wow partner
coach which was probably one of the best
things we've ever done because we we
learned twice as fast or three times as
fast as a result because we could
debrief we would watch the other learn
from the other it was magnificent in
fact we do that in our coach training
now after we have them coach one by one
then they partner coach but that's not
the point of this we used
to we used to go incredibly deep
sometimes spending 2 hours just trying
to figure out what why did this happen
and then once finally once we got it
we're like oh now I know exactly what
created it then we would start the
coaching and we try to figure things out
and I forget why but all I know is one
day I realized oh we don't do that part
anymore at all in fact it almost doesn't
matter because what I've noticed is like
they're just it's the same pattern over
and over and I don't need to to know the
exact why in order to unblock and I'm
curious if in your coaching in your
practice it's similar different or am I
missing
something yeah it's a great question I I
don't oftentimes I don't really need to
know the backstory of the person um and
sometimes it's really critical to know
the backstory of the person so it's kind
of a hit or miss on I I just recently I
I've been working with this person for
many years because I have long-term
clients and I was working with them
and some insight about their mom showed
up that totally unraveled like three
patterns in their life and it was
amazing and it would not have
happened if the the mom incident and the
mom thing hadn't like unraveled right
and and
so but we had never spoken about his mom
before that moment and lots of other
stuff had unraveled so it's kind of a
it's a strange thing what I notice is
that nowadays what I'll do is I'll if
I'm have a long-term client I'll spend
the first hour with them just hearing
their
backstory because it helps me put some
patterns together but if you see my
experience is if I see the pattern so
for
instance um I see like a man comes to me
and they're uh and they're
womanizing I don't need to hear their
story very much to know there's a 90%
chance they had emot unavailable mom
like I just I can tell you that like
right and
so so similarly if I see somebody like
with their chin up and they're armored
like I can tell you that they don't have
good access to their emotion which means
probably there's a bit of a narcissistic
parent involved that term used lightly
so like there's just a lot of things
that where I can just see it so I can
work without it however sometimes it's
really important for them so typically
it's whe when it's important for them to
see oh this click click click and they
can have a mental click that allows the
emotional stuff to move but yeah if you
understand the patterns it's usually not
so necessary to make
progress but sometimes it is yeah yeah
very similar very very similar I think
like for the 8020 I don't need it
anymore or it's
just but every once in a while as you
were saying that there were examples
popping into my mind of oh yeah pointing
that out or them bringing it up why like
pausing is a big a big big chunk of what
we do it's yeah ridiculously simple and
incredibly hard to do to you literally
I'm saying I'm going to put a timer on
this is your space now you're going to
hold that you're going to be in this
space and anytime during this timer as
you're speaking I just want you to stop
and do nothing just take a pause ideally
breathe but I don't care just pause and
most people genuinely cannot yeah and
that often stems from a lot of a lot of
past baggage of I'm not worth it I don't
feel like I have my seat in the at the
table this space should probably be used
by somebody else who's more worthy than
me or has more interesting things than
me to say or if I pause I'm going to
look stupid or it's going to look like
I'm blanking and I'm deathly afraid of
blanking there's so many reasons but
it's it's fascinating yeah yeah
there's yeah it's an what's fasc yeah
what's fascinating to me about it is
that there's a
um in general there's a receiving a
listening and
allowing
that
people don't ever think about how they
do that they always think about how they
do do the thing right so meaning I am
how am I going to say what am I going to
say what when am I going to say it
what's the like it's that's what does
the presentation look like is the
graphics all right is the it's all about
the things they're going to do like they
you know I coach Executives and they're
like I'm going to go raise money and and
they're going to tell me all the things
they're going to do to raise the money
and I'll ask like so what are you going
to allow to raise the money what are you
going to listen to to raise the money
what are you going to that that whole
aspect it's not just in the in speaking
it's in like so much of life is lost
because people aren't doing the pause
the receiving the allowing part of it
and and the best example I have of this
is like so if we teach if we're teaching
somebody coaching we have some like
off um we have like a very long process
if anybody wants to like coach with us
and or just wants to learn about
coaching
and the first year of it half of it is
just about listening it's just about how
you
listen because there's so much that your
reality is so um based on what how you
how you listen if I listen to you one
way I'm going to get X information if I
listen to you another way I'm going to
get y information if I listen to you one
way you're going to feel closer to me if
I listen to you another way you're going
to
feel removed arranged angry at me are
more likely to feel that way that's true
with investors that's true with
customers that's true with and so how
you listen is like such an important
part which is all a pause right like
that whole thing how you listen is a
pause and people are far more concerned
with the with the format of their
PowerPoint presentation than oh how am I
going to listen when I go into this
meeting it's an amazing thing so it's a
it's a it seems like they're very
parallel those two very very
I think you're also showing
up you have to show up more
trusting if you're going to
listen because you're trusting that when
it's my turn I'll be okay I think that's
one of the big reasons people don't
listen is because they're thinking what
should I say next what will I say when
it's my turn right and if I
if and communicating interacting in life
is so much
about kind of it's a it's about flow so
it's about subconscious your
subconscious not your conscious mind as
much your subconscious is much more
powerful has many more answers and if
you put take the whole being in place
what pausing slowing down listening does
it just allows you to see more hear more
so you it's it's very counterintuitive
and I think that's why people struggle
with the the pausing so much which is
very related to the
listening is that you want to do
something no no no I need I need to
perform very well I need to get
something really really I need to say
the right thing okay yeah so if I need
to say the right thing I need to I need
to tense my brain and like get the right
thing out but the reality is the exact
opposite it's no no no you have
to stop everything so much so
that the essence of what you want is
going to come up for you I have this
visual in my mind that your subconscious
always has the answer right there for
you on a platter it's your personal
Butler and they're right there but most
of the time you just can't see it and
you just have to
relax yeah take a breath out slow
everything down and suddenly the
butler's there and then the butler's
there in fact I have a little story from
uh partner coaching with Michael in the
early days when I was still really I had
a lot to learn
and we were coaching and I I forget why
exactly but what I remember is Michael I
remember noting oh Michael's really on a
roll right now and so I'm the client's
in front of us Michael's like locked in
with her and they're going back and
forth and I'm
watching and
usually I was in a position where I felt
I need to add value so I need to jump in
and also when I when something pops into
my mind I need to say it and in this
moment very similar to what you're
describing for your coaches I decided
I'm not going to say anything because it
was more he's on a rooll I don't want to
interrupt but the but I was very calm
and I was very present and the butler
came up and I had a really cool Insight
on what was happening and I thought oh
my I was like oh I really want to share
this this is so good but I didn't and so
that kind of faded in the background and
I just waited and I watched and I
listened
more and then something else came up
that was even more pointed and even more
profound and even more true because now
I knew more the situation and that
little cycle happened maybe a dozen
times over the course of 25 minutes
where I didn't say a single word and I
was just in awe as I watched and it was
like a a whole food artif a whole ah I
don't even have the word in English but
it was like a an explosion in my mind of
ideas and everyone felt more and more
precise more and more delicious and then
when by the end when it was my turn to
speak I was able to ask just one
question like five or six words boom
that was just exactly what was needed
and all of the rest I realized was
Superfluous and didn't need to be said
right yeah yeah yeah I love that feeling
I when when you realize that you're in a
room with like let's say I'm in a room
with like 30
students and I'll have that those
moments many times and then what happens
often is that somebody else will say the
thing I'm thinking I'll have the thought
process then somebody else will say it
and then I have the thought process and
somebody else will say it and so now
when I'm in a room often unless I'm
asked a direct question if I'm
facilitating like a group conversation I
won't say it until it's like five
minutes has passed because I'm sure
somebody else will say it and what's
fascinating about that for me is like a
lot of times when people come to the
work I'll say you're you you're here
because of me but what you're going to
find out is that you're really here for
each other that the like you're going to
learn more from each other you're going
to learn more from people sharing their
stories you're going to learn more from
the lessons that they've just learned
and and that's why it's because that
wisdom it's it's it's like the butler's
there but it's there for everybody
almost which is really fascinating to me
it's like the butler comes up and is
like this needs to be said oh you're not
going to say it will you say it will you
say it it's this very fascinating thing
that happens and it's such a pleasure to
watch that how non-personal it can be
it's like it's not even your butler you
know what I mean it's it feels far more
like a channeling when I you know it was
funny because you said something about
trust which is a word that we can use
nowadays that's everybody can get into
but I actually like the word faith more
not faith in oh I like Faith so much
more yes yeah of course because it's and
even if you think about I was told in
ancient Greek I think it was ancient
Greek that Faith used to be a verb you
were faithing like it was like it was
some like I'm walking I'm
faithing so if you think about like when
you're
speaking this way you're just faithing
you're just faing that the butler is
going to and it's not faith in like some
external thing it's just like faith
that it's all there for
you and I and there so for me that's
what I really like and and I love it
when there's like it you can see it in a
group that the whole group has the
butler yeah
yeah yeah we talked a little bit about
it last time we we had a discussion
where we talked about this idea of
what we were uncovering the both of us
in our in our practices whether it's art
of accomplishment or Ultra speaking how
it feels like we're just unearthing
something that already exists like an
archaeologist and that we're just
unearthing the truth sharing it
packaging and sharing it in a way that
can be understood in our current
Zeitgeist but really it's a we're not
inventing anything I'm just bringing
this stuff back up and yeah presenting
it to people so that they could take
advantage of it so I love that idea of
this idea that the yeah the butler is
there for everyone everything you've
discovered and encountered is
discoverable and encounter by anybody
else just as mine is yeah yeah I love
that feel I had this moment the other
day seems related I'm not sure if it
will be so maybe we'll cut it out of the
podcast
but I was having a conversation with
people who had been through our Master
Class from like year one 2 and three so
I had three year I wanted to just I
wanted to talk to them
about like what happened and how is it
now after years and years and years and
years and somebody had said one of the
people
said you
know it wasn't what it didn't change my
life it changed Generations every
generation after me will be changed by
the transformation that I experienced
and
which I had felt for myself but I had
never felt for the people that I I was
working with like I never really like it
was it hit me in a big way at that
moment
and and in that recognition there was
also the recognition that like that
wasn't actually my
work like it wasn't me doing that it was
like the 20 people who had a huge
influence and taught me and it was the
20 people and some of them 2,000 years
old and the people who taught them and
the people who taught them and it's
like it's such this interesting thing it
feels so good in my system when I see
the like you said like you're uncovering
stuff that's been uncovered a hundred
times
before that you like that the butler's
for everybody that that there's a
faithing that's been going on for you
know for eons 200,000 years people have
been pausing and seeing what the [__]
comes out of their mouth exactly you
know what I mean yeah and then like the
thousands of years prior the Millennia
prior to there's probably somebody who
invented a better version of ultr
speaking that I that Michael and I have
been able to create so far and I'm just
still catching up this would look
ridiculous you know somebody's like just
got
it yeah except nobody would understand
it because it's an ancient Aramaic and
and it doesn't and it doesn't reference
AI once so it' be complete you know like
it would be it would be out it wouldn't
work yeah that's it's so interesting and
I think it's also very easy or at least
you can see how easy it would be to be
caught in your ego if you find something
very exciting like you find the Nugget
of gold you're like I'm a great gold
digger right I'm good at finding gold
but you were just incredibly lucky and I
think there you're lucky from you know
you grew up a certain way you met a few
people you had all kinds of
circumstances and you probably showed up
a lot of times in a way that created
this for you but I've found that the act
of pulling my S out of the Limelight
more yeah especially when it comes to
the to the the act of coaching and the
the essence of what it is we do yeah to
actually be incredibly freeing because
it's because you're you're always kind
of pulled in you always want to you know
look at anybody who's who's any early
stage
entrepreneur it's almost like you have
no choice but to pump up your chest and
say what I'm doing is so important and
so amazing and I'm changing lives and
you can you can get caught into that so
easily yeah but there's something very
freeing
of let letting that go and saying wait
wait yeah I'm but I think when I see the
people who have done it the other way
where they get oh it's me then with that
oh it's me there's a responsibility that
becomes an obl
ation that turns into a resentment but
they can't leave it cuz the girlfriend's
too sexy it's like making them lots of
money and everybody's looking at them
and and then it leads to like some
crazy Addiction typically and like need
for control
so so to me in my mind having worked
with people where that has
happened where it was them it was all
about them
and eventually I've just seen where that
that that lands in a like a very
terrible place and so for me when I
think about it it's
it's either I can acknowledge that that
it's not me it's never been me it's like
I'm channeling something or I can be you
know with some terrible habits trying
to get the [__] away from this feeling
of I'm responsible for everything and
I'm alone in
it so like those seem to to be
eventually those seems to be the options
when the pressure gets too
big and I I feel like to some degree
that's like a macro of the thing you're
teaching in in Ultra speaking right so
it's like if you come in thinking you're
responsible thinking it's about you
thinking about it's about your
reputation thinking about like it's your
wisdom you're going to give a shitty
speech if you can walk in and you can be
like
more in faith more in trust more waiting
for the butler knowing that it's about
the butler it's not about you then the
speech goes well it feels like that's
like a life thing it's not just a
speaking thing yeah and it's the that's
why this Pursuit is so
liberating and why the most common
feedback we get and I'm sure you get a
similar version of this but for us it's
like oh this is so this is about so much
more than speaking it's always that that
comes up and I think it's because you
because it's not about how you move your
hands or where you look or how you
structure your speech and it's more
about who you are how you're showing up
how much Faith you have yeah that in
order to access that you need to you
need to rewire your brain you need to
literally change certain ways in which
you show up in the world and you can't
do that just for speaking and for one
moment you when if you change something
and how you show up it's it's going to
spread speaking is a meta skill it it
improves everything and spreads out
so that's why I think this is such a
worthy Pursuit because if you're stuck
in your ego you're not going to be able
to break through until you realize that
and you see it yeah and then you have a
choice to do something about it and if
you do yeah there's Magic on the other
side yeah we don't get that by the way
that feedback at all because we we're
not promising something
like it's one of the weird things about
us is that like we don't have that one
thing that we're you know that we're
focused on that is a gateway to
something much bigger we're just like ah
here's a whole bunch of
[__] we didn't Market all that well but
people come and then they recommend it
to their friends and it kind of shows up
you say that but you guys have insane
word of mouth so whatever you're doing
is working very very very well yeah yeah
yeah it's a pleasure um cool man I think
that feels really good that feels what a
pleasure to be with you again have a
second conversation with you for all of
you who are listening we had had a
conversation the first time and I had
screwed up the micing so you didn't you
lost some really good parts of that
conversation but this one also feels
really good so I agree what a pleasure
what a pleasure to see you again
absolutely it was my pleasure
too